Hello, dear listener, and welcome back to Startling Barbara Bain, the only Space 1999 commentary podcast, Whistling a jaunty tune as the moon comes crashing towards us.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Brendan.
I'm James.
And I'm that bottle of Pittsbuen, you forgotten left behind the back of the eagle for this one.
You know, I've already used Pierce Pureino, but it was certainly a contender for the magic word.
How close aren't we?
I've never heard of that What, Pitts Boyne?
It was a very famous and classy type of sunscreen that our mother's probably used, yeah.
And that's hilarious.
I thought it was a piece of modern art.
No, no.
We got CN skiopophical.
Christ.
That was it.
Yes, we couldn't afford it.
So today we are watching series one, episode 16, I want to say.
Yes, or if you're watching it in production order 6, probably.
It's called another time, another place. and it's by our very own Johnny Byrne.
And I think that we will probably more or less just go straight in because it's very languorous and I don't want to run out of anything to say.
So my word, my keyword.
Can you guess it, Richard?
Well, I had a go.
He had a go.
My keyword for this episode is mime and just wait and have a look at the pre-credit sequence.
And when I next say that word, Richard, and listener at home, it is your time to press play.
So here we go.
Mime.
No, I never would have got that.
And with house meme.
Meme if you're French.
So this is a very weird opening.
Immediate, great butter acting.
Yeah, yeah.
You know what?
Even I noticed, and I'm not a butt guy.
I'm not a bug. have a great butt, but I'm not a butt guy.
So we are very blessed to have Judy Geese son, Geese.
So, in a great sharpie haircut.
She looks awesome and obviously the episode is going to be all about her.
Oh, it's the Arc of Infinity.
But no one is saying anything in main mission.
And if it's made for the Italians.
Princess Hancock was rumbling just then.
So no one says anything.
And then they start just hurling themselves across the set.
The thing is, I actually love that.
I think, you know, very often we have these.
Yeah, you wrestle by profession.
I'm back at it.
The knee is better.
But, you know, we very often have these pre-title sequences where it's like, oh, there's a thing approaching.
Is there a thing approaching pool?
Yes, commander, the thing is still approaching.
Kano is the thing approaching.
Because computer says the thing is approaching.
Dr. Matthias is the thing approaching.
I must say Nick just absolutely threw himself into the... would have been choreographed, but he also seemed to trip over great butt guy.
And wouldn't you?
Yes. deliberately.
That's how I broke my knee at Paramount.
So we are getting a bit of dialogue, but that's all we're going to get.
Oh, that really hurts.
That's why you shouldn't do it with wet hands, Connor. dry off after the sauna.
Or whatever they were doing in the commander's office, you know.
Oh, it's snowing.
You know, upside down snowing.
Yeah.
I think it's easy to forget that Judy Geason was a big name at this time and, you know, also went on to have very prominent roles, but probably at this time was best known for a soap called The Newcomers, of which only 5 episodes survived.
Wow, okay.
Yeah.
She does move to LA at some point in the 1980s and she is, therefore, in 2 episodes of Star Trek Voyager series one, where she plays Sondrin, the kind of owner of the eponymous, you know, drinking establishment on the holodeck that everyone goes to to play pool.
Oh my god, that's why she looks so familiar.
Yeah.
Her mouth, when she starts screaming, is like something else. is generous, isn't it?
Yeah, she's like, it's bigger than her entire head.
Yeah, it's a really period look.
Like she does look sort of fabulously 70s, I think.
And she is really striking. her shoulder here, sorry.
It's like, call yourself a doctor.
She's really good.
And then they kill her off halfway through the episode.
It's very disappointing.
You know, they did shove 2 brains into her.
I'll come back to that at the end because I think that's...
Spoiler alert, I think this is wonderful.
I think this is possibly the best episode.
It's because of the cast and we need to mention Johnny Byrne.
He really does do great linear plotting.
Are we going to start?
No, no, no.
I'm just pointing something out to Brendan.
Oh, that right, I see.
So we're currently at the point if you're listening to this in the bath.
Colin Hyde. getting to the point where they're doing that exciting split.
It is actually really good.
It's really well told.
Like, they're all standing in these voids.
I love how when Paul disappears, he goes off to get something off camera, like I said to Sandra.
She's going, I'm going over here.
I'm going over there.
Do you know this sound?
Do you recognise it?
No.
The woo woo woo scream?
It's by Daphne Orem, who was really good mates with Delia Derby shit.
Ah.
She recorded that in 1961 for Jack Clayton's film, The Innocence, but it also turns up in First Men in the Moon.
Laurie Johnson, of course, used to it.
It's also in, um, they come from outer Outerbiance base in 67.
And it's also used in Alpha Child, so we've already heard.
Yes, yes.
An immunity syndrome.
Yes.
There's some very exciting stuff coming up when Carter visits Regina in the medical unit.
You're going to hear a little bit of the Dalek city.
Dalek film.
So we'll put that in.
Isn't she gorgeous?
Yeah, yeah. with a wonderful sharpie haircut.
Yeah, no, she looks fabulous.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Isn't the woman with 2 brains an episode of Coupling?
Spoilers.
When are we doing the coupling podcast?
I think we're...
Never.
But for brains.
When Richard Coyle comes back, damn it.
Yeah, season 4 is so disappointing.
Yeah, it's very sad.
So, I mean, why do you think this is so good?
What do you think is good about it?
I think what's good about it is the sort of esoteric weirdness.
Bathrobes, beards.
It's not just, sometimes I feel with the show, the esoteric weirdness is the writer saying to the audience, I'm going to confuse you.
Whereas I feel like what Johnny Byrne is saying is, I've had a great idea and I want you to have it with me and I don't necessarily know what everything means. let's think about it together.
I think that's, like, I think I agree.
And I think too, there are incredible visuals.
Like the 2 moons going around earth.
David Tomlin.
Yeah, the gay moon.
Yeah, yeah, coming together. what?
Rainbow.
I did I did like watch this and wonder what Johnny Byrne was smoking and then I was wondering what I was smoking.
It's trippiest fuck.
Yeah.
And there is just a kind of inability to explain what's happening at all.
And that's fine.
Like that's great.
But also, I think the characters speculate just enough.
They speculate to a natural level.
You know, because sometimes in space 1999, Victor starts to think, oh, why might this be happening?
And Konig says, I don't fucking knock.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know, I don't know and I don't care.
Lock ourselves in the office and do what we do.
Yeah.
I mean, there's a great scene later on where he speculates that there's a place where they belong and I think it doesn't go anywhere.
I guess the implied conclusion is that they belong on alpha, but, you know, the moon comes back because in a sense it belongs here and there's some kind of motive force to the universe.
And we missed our joint toppling himself off.
Oh, wow.
Don't stand up there because you know you're going to fall.
Well, that's the thing.
That opening scene, as soon as I saw that over the shoulder show.
I was like, right, he's going over the Instagram.
He was gone.
There's a bottle of piss just there.
Regina.
It's Bob's.
Helena keeping saviour bob samples.
He keeps them like Howard Hughes.
Yeah, yeah.
He sells drink.
It's very, it's a very highly desired commodity. very strong.
Yeah.
High source of nutrients and minerals.
So how are there 9 how are there 9 planets in this solar system?
Well, well, because it's still 1999.
There we go.
Thank you.
Although, it has been pointed out, I believe it's in Dragon's domain, that there were 11 planets.
Oh, were there?
By 1999.
We discovered planets at 10 and 11.
It's another episode.
I think it's Dragon's domain.
Is this before or after we've decided Pluto, was it a planet again?
Yeah.
Well, it's it's 7 years before in real time because that was decided in 2006.
Bastards.
Yeah.
My very elderly mother just swiftly undid norm.
It doesn't have the same ring to it.
Yeah, that's right.
So it's the last word there to listen.
So she's called we're saying Regina. to rhyme with Vedkina.
No, well, I think that it's how we pronounce it in Latin, Regina, the Latin word for queen.
It is an awful, awful name.
Like it's just awful.
Played by Goody Jason.
Well, yeah, Goody Jason.
Thank you.
You got there first.
Stephanie, Stephanie Beacham's character in Ship in a Bottle is Regina, something or other in style.
But that's because they're American.
Well, she's not.
Stephanie... being pronounced for the Americans.
But the posh brutes do so again, is simply to separate it from the... from the broader...
But it is an awful name.
And my theory is that my theory is that when the name came up, it was that Martin and Barbara just weren't going to say it.
And then they were told, no, we've already made the headstone and we're stuck with it now.
Stentata, no?
Regina Dentata?
Yeah, I think so.
Now, I gather that someone who's never been in the sun and doesn't know what it looks like. that's right.
In other words, an English person.
Yes, English person.
Now, um, Sylvia Anderson did recall in an interview that Judy threatened to walk offset and believes it was either a disagreement with the director in general or a disagreement with the director about Judy's performance.
Right.
Really?
Because David Tomlin, really well respected, you know. from since the 50s.
However, the year before this, Judy's partner had died from a stroke.
So I wonder if it might have been a matter of the director saying, oh, no, no, no, don't play it like that when your husband's died.
And she turns around and says, I think I fucking know, actually.
No, we don't.
We don't, we don't know, but I'm, I'm just putting a few facts together, but I've never heard anyone stuff.
I mean, I've been following David Tomlin's career since we were tiny fanboys because, you know, he was, he was co-creator, really, with Pat McGuin on the prisoner, that so much of the feel of that and the cutting of it.
He was considered the finest AD in the damn world, assistant director in the world.
I mean, he worked on one of my favourite films of all time, which we never did for Bondfinger, the liquidator, with Rod Stewart's Shirley Bassey things the theme. my goodness.
And it's terrible.
And then it's got Sue Lloyd, we should do it.
But yeah, yeah.
Tomlin is amazing Really, really good.
And UFO are one of our all-time favourites.
Raiders of the Lost Ark. you know, Return of the Jedi.
Temple of Doom.
He's dead, so we can't get him on the podcast.
I mean, he's incredible.
This is very beautifully directed.
It's very gentle. isn't it?
It has, but it has the right pace for something that when there's not a lot happening.
But you just allow the actors to do the work, yeah.
Victor there talking about how travelling faster the speed of light or approaching the speed of light may have affected time.
Yeah.
Johnny Byrne here seems to be riffing a bit on how JB Priestley wrote about time in his time plays.
Okay.
And I've been reading a lot about that recently because I wanted to direct one.
And I wasn't successful in that, but I am directing importance of being earnest instead and that's not time travel.
So you could put time travel in.
Yeah, J.B. Priestly wrote about time, travel, and the perception of time in terms of how we perceive an experience time.
So he didn't have time machines, but he did have people living the same lives over and over again.
And then, but then the 2nd and 3rd time round, they became a and would be able to instill change or just nudge things ever so slightly.
I've seen that Richard Curtis film.
Yes.
About time.
Yeah, yeah.
It would not surprise me at all if he were influenced by Priestley. good film.
Haven't we all been?
The most famous one is an Inspector Calls of his time plays.
Yeah.
But there is also one called I have been here before and Victor says something similar.
Oh, okay.
Okay, okay.
Yeah.
Which made me think.
What is this blue planet that we're coming towards that looks like Earth?
What is it?
Oh, it's Earth.
It's so strange, isn't it?
That this is just a one-off episode, but they arrive at Earth.
Like they're doing this thing where we arrive at Earth.
And Earth has already kind of been taken away from them, hasn't, hasn't it, as a, as a possible place where we can go back too, because time has passed and it's now the distant future and things.
There's no earth.
They can't go back to Earth.
Even in the 70s, we understood about time to relation.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
And because the universe of Space 1999 is so weird and Eldritch and kind of incomprehensible.
It's mostly white.
Or at least like that.
In a lot of ways, much less why there's a lot of other TV programs.
We just mean the wall.
Sorry, I was trying to be woke.
No, have you not?
No, it's Smirnoff alert week.
Yeah, yeah.
That's right.
It's Midoria.
Yeah.
Don't need to try to be blown.
White, white, white.
And so it never comes back.
And of course, the inciting incident, which is just, you know, where they throw themselves across the set and stuff like that.
That's never explained.
Clearly, it creates 2 moons and it sends one of them 5 years back in time or something.
Like something happened.
Yeah, I thought the 2nd moon came out of Regina's mouth.
It is a generous big enough.
I'm going to call her Kylie.
I'm just going to call her Dentata.
Yeah, no it's upsetting me.
Don't do that.
I'm going to ask if anyone's been personally victimised by Regina Carter.
Yeah, see, well, the surname's actually...
Yes.
Keslan, which doesn't sound very...
I'm glad we're using this prop.
Because it's been entirely bought to match with his little outfit.
Nothing in my in my office is not going to match my up.
I just want 70s haircuts again.
I know.
That should be back, that hair.
That's Barbara pretending she cares.
I know, but every, like, you know, the mothers of all of the people that you went to school with, Richard, that you're in primary school with all had that hair, did they?
Well, the cool ones, too.
I was going to say, had that moisturiser when you got sunburned.
Oh, but no, they knew what being sunburnt was like.
I regret that when we've seen the solarium and we've seen the velour bikinis, but we've never seen alpha salon.
We've seen the frickan autopsy.
It probably doubles as a salon.
It's the same chemicals. bombing, yeah.
Mbappa Bay.
Lovely, lovely bit of scripting there where she's talking about, you know, oh, I, you know, I always, I always peel in the sun, isn't it awful?
And then 3 lines later, she's saying, I hate being inside.
But the thing is, it, it, Judy really sells the duality of the role.
Yeah.
And she could have easily gone over the top with it.
And yet there is there is a subtlety to the differences in the performance.
Like, it's not at all clear why Judy's the one affected in this way either.
I was thinking that, and then the 2nd time I was watching, when the situation is happening.
She tries to get out of the command centre.
She runs away from everyone and then comes back.
Perhaps that's the reason.
Yeah.
She actively tries to escape the effect that...
And so she breaks it somehow.
And she's the one who sees the retreating moon, so she's aware of it in another way.
But again, it is, it's that thing where there's no proper explanation and that's good.
Yeah, I think this is one of the situations where it's okay.
I think sometimes there's no proper explanation because they can't be bothered.
And this time there's no proper explanation because there's no way to do it without saying, well, actually, it's this.
And this is I think this is a wonderful week for Nick Tate.
He underplays all of this.
Such a good actor.
He always gets the tone right.
He really does.
She's a bit clingy isn't she?
Yeah.
Well, I mean, it is a very hermetic.
It's quite a new marriage.
They're not bored of each other yet.
Oh I don't know. she's having seconds right now.
Does anyone remember?
Dude.
I mean, you obviously not you lot, but I mean, Nathan, does any of you, Nathan, remember Judy in the 70s and her sister Sally?
Do you remember a little show called Bless This House with Sid James?
Yes.
So his daughter, Sally, was due with Sally Geson.
And she's in 2 carry-ons.
I kept thinking it was Judy, but it's Sally.
They were so wet to the people.
You said that, but I find the sun.
No, I don't know.
ABC.
ABC. was so sweet.
She's in carry on abroad and carry on girls.
But that the sun?
Remember how just wet...
Oh, hang on.
I remember the actor. good in other things, but yeah, okay.
Anyway.
I'm just looking at the hair on the back of Nick's neck.
Yeah.
See, what I what I love.
Dad, sorry, their dad's was the editor of the national coal board magazine.
Well there you go.
So, you know, there was so much...
They're Nepo babies, really.
Well, that's interesting because in the newcomers, which was some Judy sort of, well, I would say big break, but she had a lot of work before that as well.
It was about a family where the father was an industrialist and they but they decide to move to where the factory is out in the country.
So it's a culture shock kind of soap.
And I believe she was part of the well-to-do owners family.
How long did it run, do you know?
Four years.
So there must be this week, like 100s of episodes.
Hundreds of episodes. and five. five. amazing.
Yeah, and she was in, I think, 60 of them.
Okay.
Yeah, something like that.
There's something I love about Nick's performance in this is...
And Richard, Richard is showing us what...
Judy Gooson's looking at now.
She's still with us, which is a bloody relief, because not many are. yeah 1948, she was born, so...
I think Nick plays Alan...
Nick plays Alan this episode with a real empathy towards Regina without ever stating it in words.
I'm sure it was written into the script as a direction for him, but they don't feel the need to give him a monologue or anything.
And I think that's he does it beautifully.
When he carries her out after she dies.
Like, that's amazing.
I should point out to the listener we're not up to that bit.
So if you think you've lost...
Yes, yes, you're right.
Yeah, she's just a bit where she's been overdoing the Zivirx.
Yeah.
I did say that she does disappear halfway through the episode and I have, of course, referred to her headstone as well.
So, um...
That's the exciting bit which she gets to put on the bathroom.
There's some top quality bathrobes here.
Top quality.
She doing a bit of Susanna Yorkie.
She kind of is, the baby's is that.
Yeah, it's pretty good.
I love how this is lit as well.
It's really good isn't it?
He knows a lot to the Russians and to Ingmar Bergman.
Yeah, but Tomlin was a proper film movie, especially there, a major movie fan.
Like he really knew his film stuff.
And you know, Richard, with praising David Tomlin.
I think he has a paciness to this that has been missing from some other episode.
Oh, he gets it.
And you know what?
I don't think the script is any more or less dense. think it's his direction.
Exactly.
The director's make a break. directors and editors.
The, the, the, the distorting mirror and...
It's wonderful in her mouth.
It's like, 0 my god.
Though it did go a bit Janice from the Muppets just then.
But it looks great that the mirror in the black void because it's not visible.
There goes Bob.
Now, I do think they missed a trick here because he was in shadow right until he landed.
He could have already had like a blood trickle.
Yeah, yeah.
But at the same time, you know, you don't necessarily want to hurt them.
No, he's great.
We love Bob.
That prop that she's smashing everyone up with.
He's not a trouser press.
It goes back to 1965.
And that's always been a Geig counter.
Night Caller Invasion, Island of Terror.
They came from Beyond Space.
You listen to our podcast.
I thought it was a heavy stapler.
I just can't get over how gorgeous a haircut is.
It's like... wonderful, isn't it?
Really, this is just an ad for Vidalysis.
Oh, there's Tony Allen.
Australian and Tony Allen.
He's always in a purple sleeve, Mulby sleeve, and he's always going to get kicked in the nad.
Yeah, flagging purple.
Wait for it.
Kick in the nap.
There you go, good girl.
What is purple in the hanky code?
But he does lie.
He does supine very elegantly, doesn't he?
I will say unlike Pert where you can see which way he dresses, yeah.
I will say, Richard, that that Geiger counterprop.
You're quite right.
But Catacombs have an even earlier appearance of it in a science fiction program in 1959.
It's quite sad that you know that.
Yes.
Torching the battery boy.
And you gorgeous model of the earth.
So if we look closely at the microgram, we'll see that we recognise all of these extras because they're in every freaking episode of season one, except for one.
Yeah.
But actors are only in this one, which is a bit sad because he's very good.
She's got the stable gun.
Yeah, this butt.
But act.
Yeah, ask for help, but others, um, lovely um, Emily Bolton or June Bolton machines.
No, you remember from Moonraker.
And of course, it's interesting that it's Barbara who is the one who puts herself in the firing line.
Yeah.
And that, yeah, all of the double that double thing and all of the imagery, of course, is the void.
And earlier on, Koenig referred to everyone having double vision.
So he's already written it off as just a, you know, a vision problem.
Wow, she's got a lot of feelings.
Japanese were terrible.
I know.
Mind you.
I I...
Yeah, this is beautiful, isn't it?
I choked up.
I choked up watching this.
Yeah, yeah.
I, and it's both of them.
It is both of them, isn't it?
And he's thinking, geez, I wish I'd known.
She hot.
Yeah, his reaction is so beautiful.
Nick is very believable.
I've never known him to be in this show.
Yeah, he's great, isn't he?
He really underplays it.
Yeah, no, I think that's just beautiful.
It's really properly said and it's a shock because, you know, we've seen these guest stars come along and be the focus of an episode and she barely lasts halfway through.
Um, yeah.
And, you know, as I have said before, when there's been a female guest star, it's like, I do, in a way, I feel, why isn't this Sandra?
But at the same time, I wouldn't have wanted to lose duty.
No, she's wonderful.
She's just great.
So where are we now?
Have we got the, because we do get, he does get the neo magics out.
It doesn't need to be all its victim.
That's a colour in her topple brain.
It's a cover...
Yeah, that's right.
Apparently Johnny Byrne didn't like that or something.
I did have a look at the Catacombs entry.
Yeah, it does.
The catacomb stuff doesn't sort of explain what he wanted instead.
Maybe he wanted to say something along the lines of, you know, there were 2 brain patterns.
Like there were 2 thoughts.
Brains superimposed on each other.
But this stuff, the weirdness of this, just like what the earth has turned into as well.
Like it's something no one lives there, it's empty.
There's whole areas that are radioactive ash. you know, something terrible has happened to the that they've escaped.
And so there's no earth.
There's no home.
This isn't the story of people trying to get home or with any hope of going home again.
Well, in the script, he makes it very clear, you know, there's that cut scene.
Spoilers, when they get down to the planet, 100s of feet of ash below Helena and mighty looking around there.
And there's a, and there's a big old, um, tower buried under.
It's not quite the Statue of Liberty, but I'm glad that Tomlin cut that out and said, no, no, we're meant to think it's the very distant past or alternate universe.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, there we go.
Sorry, we got the bum brain just then.
We did get the bum brain.
And some impressive teeth on Judy.
Always.
Some people might, no, I'm not going to do that.
And then we got the doppelganger moment.
It's really lovely That's so shocking, isn't it?
That there's already a moon there that it looks like they're heading back into the place where they belong and Victor's already kind of theorised about that.
That's a beautiful shot too, isn't it?
To take us to the ad break.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's gorgeous.
There it is again in case you missed it.
Yep.
Yeah, yeah.
A disappointing dearth of eagles so far.
Yeah, there will be.
Yeah, that's true.
Broken e later.
Yeah.
Just these lousy actors.
Give me some model shots, god damn it.
Judy's gone.
The episode's gone.
Yeah, that's right.
Let's just switch it off.
There you go. completely correct.
I have to correct myself So there is both chrome yellow sleeve for eagle pilots and citrine yellow for unknown bloke that stands around in the background.
Is that his actual name and the car?
It's the part he was born to play.
I thought there was only chrome yellow.
Olive woman.
Yes.
Finally.
Oh, yeah, gorgeous. have some spanacopita.
We, we, we, we, we.
But look, it has been stripped.
It's been stripped.
I don't know what happened to you.
What's the 3rd glass of wine?
This is all I want to see is this spaceships go up and down.
Also, Tom, have you noticed Tomlin's doing much more interesting shots, even within the sets of the eagle, really down low and interesting angles.
It's very, and it's very Totovsky, lots of Russian stuff like this.
And the way he defines the 4 by 3 screen by putting the doors either side.
Everything's a frame within a frame.
He's so clever.
Dust everywhere done.
I think that's beautiful too, because we do see the outside of the buildings which we don't normally see. because we also had that thing about the physical lights coming in through the windows in that opening scene as well.
There's a lot of physical discomfort.
I never noticed they had a little a little crack strap.
They do on the spot.
Just to hold it all in.
They tucking.
Why do you need a strap going right down, you bum thing?
They're tucking because...
You explosively decompressed.
The last thing you want dangling.
Yes, quiet.
You kind of know it's the old.
Someone's out of a job.
Very empty. very empty.
But there was something about the model. that made it look like it had been a band.
And I'm not quite sure.
I think it might have been desaturated.
So what little colour there is, like where it crosses and things.
What are those gravity?
The big gravity.
Yeah, there's no light songs.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know.
I mean, this looks great, doesn't it?
Really does.
That's what Freddie Freiburger is going to do to that.
Just a few months time.
So true.
Just waiting for Gabriel Wolf to turn up as a devil.
Peter Bowles.
It's another one that Martin landed, I'd say.
He's always doing that to the toys, you know, to our to our ride.
Oh, it's quite a bit of, it's always looks the same after Victor's parties, doesn't it?
Just leave you.
Can you just put your hang your things up?
Look at that before you leave.
That strap does look uncomfortable, doesn't it?
Well, he definitely dresses his left.
Yeah?
no one of them, the lies are fogged up.
But you finally get it, and you don't usually get it.
A real sense of the claustrophobia in the full boat.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, no, it's gonna be.
I'm just expecting it's Helena because it's always Helena.
It's them and being dead.
Actually.
Interesting thing, I'll mention in a moment about the helmets.
Ah yes.
So notice that the Lecraset names are above the visors. on the living ones.
But when the, the, the lighting comes on for Alan here.
Oh, it's underneath.
Ah, yes.
Fans have speculated that this is meant to be a hint that we could be dealing with an alternate reality, not a confirmed thing, but just...
That's true, that's true.
But, you know, it's, yeah, it's a thing where you...
It's a nice thought, and Tomlin did put that kind of detail into his other shows.
And it's like, it's something that would be easy enough to spot on the day and just take the label off and move it.
There's a lot of now we're watching this.
I hadn't picked it up before.
There's all these symmetry shots.
Yeah.
Two things.
Two light, divided screen.
Can I have that light, please?
You can buy it or you just nick it from Matt Smith.
Well, you know, like I'd have to re-mortgage my house.
Yeah, I mean, I'm sure you can get a knock off now, but yeah, they're aluminium.
Well, powder coated.
No, powder coated steel.
Right.
And Goodzini made them.
And we've got cost a fortune, as she said.
And we've got the rope cut there going.
I just felt a little startled just then, did you?
She did have a moment.
I love that they make all of the medical centre sheets out of the same thing.
They make the kimonos.
Everything's a bit beddy.
I can say Martin's dick there.
Oh, it's...
It's still stuck to the left after the strapping.
Oh, I don't need that.
He puts the hoe in Mount Martin Lando.
The question is, is his corpse doubles dick bigger?
Because I don't think Martin would have stood for that.
No, he would be very cross.
He would have inspected it.
I hadn't realised reading about the Landau just again this week is how well respected he was before Mission Impossible.
So the part of Roland Hand was written for him.
But as a bit actor, and he really, his big part started with, excuse me, referring to previous topics of converse just moments ago, but his massive part started with Hitchcock's discovery of him.
I'm putting him into, we've mentioned this before, one of my favourite films, North by Northwest. when he plays the bastard.
Um, and he's quite an eerie gentleman in that.
Any of that sort of toilated.
He was also a really good comic artist.
He was a good, really good illustrator. he was going to do.
And his drawings.
Anyway, that's when he diarized, he's a bit like the Russell T. Davies of this other podcast.
But he was always drawing and very sensitive, introverted man in many ways, but not shy of saying what he wanted, at least to the producers.
I mean, he's got a very striking look, doesn't he?
It's quite different, is it?
What's his background?
It's German and it's Lithuanian.
Expressionist.
Have a drink, Lisa.
And there's Nick always manages to do a bit of butt acting, doesn't he?
he does.
David Tom fully aware of his... there's Paul saying, I'm here too.
He was the 70s and he is Australian.
Australian.
Strange.
He's a little fellow, he's perfectly formed.
They're all quite little.
Martin's.
Martin's what, 6 foot?
Yeah.
But, you know, most of them are a bit little.
So Barry's looking divine, isn't he, actually?
Barry's 6 foot with that hair.
Yeah.
With the fluff fluffing, yeah.
It meant something different then.
Okay, so already she thinks it's a bad idea for them to go down and made the other versions of themselves.
Because of the Blinovic limitations.
Yeah, yeah.
She's seen Morden undead, obviously, because that screened before 1999.
Yeah, and I do think her logic there is pretty sound where she's like, well, you and Alan should go because you're already dead.
We kind of know what will happen to you.
But then her logic should be and I should go because I wasn't on there, which means you won't crash this time.
Oh, if they're thinking about, but I haven't gone back in time.
Yeah, yeah, but I'm not sure that that's what we like, don't they split?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And then one has a whole different path.
Yeah, they don't know.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I wasn't thinking of it all like that at all. of thinking about it, isn't it?
Yeah, but I think a bit like Priestley, you know, when Priestley was writing about time travel in the 30s and 40s, it wasn't really a thing.
You know, we had had the time machine and then you kind of get a long gap before time more time travel fiction.
Yeah, okay.
And yeah, I think here Johnny Byrne is going, how do I not do the Enterprises hurl back in time by the slingshot maneuver?
How do I do something interesting?
And like this too. how earth has just turned into this set, like one of one of the horrible, horrible planets that this show creates to strain the wall.
Oh, actually, just a few 100 K west of Sydney.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, you know.
But it's so bleak, isn't it?
It's looking a bit dry.
But also the yellowness of it as well.
Like there's something unpleasantly yellow about them.
Yeah.
And Tomlin's the only one who dares to use a matte painting of an eagle stepping off.
It's the only time we see it.
That works so well.
Great.
And that's on Blu-ray, don't forget. does look gorgeous.
Yeah, does, doesn't it?
Like, they obviously, there's a lot of very clean cutting there. of the matte painting.
But also, yeah, interesting stuff.
Like he uses, he uses the crane a lot and Dolly.
So, you know, it's not just down on the set.
It's really high up, but I'm also really loving the egg cartons.
Yeah, I don't think we should ever land without massive blocks.
Remember those play cubbies that were around in the early 70s that were based on Buckminster Fullerton?
Oh, yes.
Your posh wins have those?
They're a bit like this, but they used to sort of build, hmm, and there's Victor's mole.
So, Victor is now a Franciscan Friar.
Or just Ian McKellar.
Only from his hand comes life.
From his wrath, death.
And from his road, yes.
That's gorgeously done, isn't it?
Barry Morse really knows how to time.
Wait for it.
That's in the wrong spot.
I can't tell what he's looking at.
Oh, yeah, okay.
Is that that's what's happening?
Yeah, it's mooning him. yeah I thought he was looking at 2 moons.
Well, he will be in a moment.
Someone's mooning him.
Oh, no, that's a bit shit.
Yeah, but it's weird how alien they make the earth.
It just becomes another one of those horrible planets.
And instead of a red sky.
It's got a horrible yellow sky.
Red sky at night, sailor's delight.
Yeah, and something's gone wrong with the atmosphere as well.
Well, there's all that fairy floss.
That's it.
That's what's it. very distracting.
I think we're a bit buggered.
Yes.
He said it's happened.
And they're probably giving a lovely grin.
So that's not going to shock the bejumies out of him.
Oh, you again.
But why are they all wearing their Jesus robes?
don't know.
I don't know.
And somehow, somehow, um, um, Prentice Hancock's got hold of a BBC press on beer, even though this isn't a BBC production.
He stole us wearing the rebus operation.
Yes, definitely.
So Sandra's here, so expect screaming.
Yeah, unfortunately.
She can't help herself.
But she's not in the leopard skin this week. have you noticed?
No, no, she's not like last time.
She does she does scream at Barbara.
Well, yeah.
She's been working with her for...
Is it A, 5 years?
9 years or, see, 900 years.
It was a very long time.
Don't look, she's, you know, she, oh, God, she's just looks 100 years older.
She's chopping vegetables.
I don't know. chopping vegetables done.
And I think it's so menial.
The close-up we had at Barbara before she walked over.
There is a sudden, like, blink of realisation, and I think it's meant to, it's meant to reply, that she sensed the other Barbara.
Oh, yeah, it's really nicely done.
And this, oh, this is amazing.
It's really good, isn't it?
Yeah.
Oh, shut up, Sam. honestly, yeah.
It's not all about you, darling.
You've got 2 barbaras here.
Yeah, it's just like the full circle lines a week. like, Sandra, why are you screaming?
No, it's exciting.
Barbara's upstaging me twice.
Yeah, it's really quite daring to zoom in on Paul's press on beard there.
It is, isn't it?
Doing his child Preston for the week.
Prentice, we miss you already.
That's wonderful.
I love that.
Yeah, yeah.
You're right.
I remember this as a boy, the Amber sky was very unsettling.
Yeah, yeah.
And just that it's earth, and it is earth, but we don't know anything about it, we don't really belong here, and it's barely habitable, and there's no one else here.
And everyone's wearing bathroom. habitable enough to grow plastic roses.
That is true.
That's true.
Now these children are not yet less than five, particularly that giant fucking child.
Radiation, bro.
It made them grow very quickly.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah.
Your teeth, Marty.
That's my fright.
I thought that was a little bit weird and over familiar with the children.
Yeah, just touch.
It was a little bit Peter Davis in Amsterdam, wasn't it?
Blair in his boiler suit glaring down at that Dutch child.
Never sits well, no.
Nathan, you what?
Just a thought on those kids don't look five.
Helen has only said that that eagle crashed 5 years ago.
So, and presumably it didn't crash like the day after they arrived. okay.
You know, enough time for Alan to meet Regina and get married.
Yeah, we could do that in 5 years.
Yeah, I was a 1970s, for Christ's sake.
Yeah, but I mean...
They were pretty quick at it, weren't they?
Yeah, potentially like that, that, um, that was 2 years after they'd landed, they died in an accident after that.
Yeah, yeah.
And Victor set up his little shop selling terracotta pots and yards of...
Yes, yeah.
Yeah, they were like sticks yards.
Yeah, they were going back to get plastic roses.
Yeah.
They were going back to get the bowl for...
Oh, they are...
Yes, yes.
Yes, we haven't got that back yet, have we?
Why are they growing roses?
You can't eat them.
What are they doing?
It's for the final scene.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, but yes, Victor probably smokes. grinds them up and snorts them.
Yeah, I'd say so.
Oh, you make them into tea.
Oh, yeah. okay.
Okay.
I also like the idea here that they've, you know, they've spread out over a wide area so that that way they can farm and make it out for themselves and what have you.
Because Battlestar, I'll actually go pick that up.
Oh, years later, for the Battlestar Galactica remake.
Right, okay.
Where they settle on a Planet one season.
Yeah, yeah.
I love how you didn't spoil that for everybody.
No, not at all.
You know, Prentice is really waiting for Lou Grade to notice him and say, you know, it's not just Robert that can do our Lord and Saviour, you know, because, you know, Lou Grade was making all of his Jesus.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Come on.
Come on, me too.
This is nice, isn't it?
The same with Nick next to her.
Nick, Nick.
He's really stabilises.
He really bases the scenes.
That's a gorgeous shot too.
All of this.
Babs on the bed.
All of this split screen stuff coming up is beautifully shot.
Is she making a time lord on this?
On a loom.
There's always a loom when you go back to basics.
There's always a loom in the end.
Zenya Merlin, yes.
Played the stand in.
She did.
For both barbers and she thought, you know, also right here in this scene.
She's like, oh, I thought I'd just be behind the set shouting the lines over, but they actually gave her an earpiece where Barbara had pre-recorded the lines for timing.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
And Zenya's like, you know, I got to give an actual performance as Dr. Russell.
Did they give her an extra fee?
Oh, of course.
And there's lovely Helena looking at ancient Hella saying, don't you just get a little bob, darling?
Get a little haircut.
I really like how they do the Daleks.
Yeah, I do.
Don't you think?
It's not makeup or anything like that.
It's just slightly different hair.
Just sliding, different kind of performance.
You can't die.
You've just made that lovely thing out of the bedspread.
You know, I said, no, I've got another bedspread.
She's got she's got the other Barbara's back home.
Yeah, get a little bob dollica.
Something and as she asks if John's here, she's sort of knitening up her hair, which is a nice touch.
Something I find so interesting about this is, you know, they've, you know, they've gone they've gone to the trouble of changing the makeup, changing the hair to indicate the age. but Barbara makes, and I think this is, I think this is the right choice.
She makes the choice to not put on an old lady voice.
Yeah, yeah.
She sounds the same and it's disorientating for the viewer and I think it's the right choice.
Well, because it is that duality thing, you know, that there's 2 of them and she's now 2 people that's in the dialogue.
And again, like, why does she choose to go, like, why does she die?
I mean, she just dies the way that Regina died earlier on.
Like, I don't know.
It's very strange and kind of sad and beautiful.
Yeah, like it's not Barbara that kills Barbara, who's John.
Oh, 2 of them.
Roger kisses her to death.
We will see too Barbara's later for him to kiss next year in the deeply embarrassing 2nd season.
Yeah, if I had a dollar for every time there was a space 1999 at the episode where at the end, Martin Landau was confronted with 2 Barbara Baines and has to kiss one of them, I'd have $2, which isn't much.
But it is strange that it happened twice.
I think it's him that kills her.
Yeah, no, Dave.
He is her Barbara Bane.
I was quite pleased with that. that was good.
Well done.
And you know, it's, but it is also the symmetry of Regina died in her husband's arms, but he's not her husband.
Yeah, yeah, and same here.
Yeah, it's such two-timers, aren't they?
And, you know, the reaction here from Victor is, yep, yep, this proves the hypothesis.
And you have to, you can't stay.
Yeah, and he doesn't say that until this happens.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, and that's so weird, isn't it?
So the earth has taken away from them again, you know.
Although, again, it's not that much fun, is it?
No.
Even the real earth's a bit shit, really.
Isn't that what the real earth looks like now?
pretty much.
Yep.
And again, Barbara's performance here is just wordless and she's just doing it all with her face.
Yep, yeah.
Yeah, she gives great face.
Lord Nimon, Lord.
Nimon.
All that needs is some little horns on top of their...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
They seem to have brought down a whole heap of hardware from the moon, which they do say, don't they?
Yeah.
And some press on beards.
Oh, Carno's got sort of press on gray hair as well.
Yeah, which is really great.
This is the 1st one we've done where we're relatively quiet.
Now, realise it's because we're being respectful.
And it isn't something we do very well.
No often.
No, like last time where we had that shitty fucking episode that shockingly bad, maybe the worst one so far.
Whereas this is exactly what I want space 1999 to be.
It feels dangerous.
Like, you know, like the, the future slash alternative.
Bathrobes aren't proper.
Because they haven't fastened them properly, is what I'm saying, which old vector, please.
Yeah, the future slash alternate universe versions of them. like almost feel like they might hurt them.
Yeah.
Because they're fresh. if they don't go back.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, like Space 1999 does create this weird, incomprehensible hostile universe and I think this episode, in a way, does that too.
And Star Trek will do this episode much later in DS9 with Children of Time.
Oh yeah.
And I think, um, it, sort of comparing that to this really sums up the difference between Space 1999 and Star Trek and I'll talk about that more at the end.
Yeah, okay.
Children of Time is a good episode.
Oh, yes, yes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Do they get into the bathrobes as well?
Yeah.
Complimentary dressing guns and slippies.
Does an enterprise do one of those episodes?
Yeah, they do.
Usually when they're in a sauna gelling each other up.
With what's his name from NCIS?
Yeah, the guy who's the, isn't that a podcast?
Oh, the decon.
I was about to say Don Johnson, but I think I'm wrong.
Not David McCallum.
No.
Oh, I missed David McCall.
I, we got an eagle doing this. wonderful.
It's all we want.
Bye.
Wrong way.
Wack your ass on the way out.
He's like, I know we're about to cease to exist.
I just got a sense of they're not.
Yeah.
No, they've already had lots of babies.
Yeah, having their moon cake and eating it too.
But again, like it's like collision course.
Was that an episode where they just have to allow themselves to crash into something and have faith?
Again, again.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, that's what we're here for.
I know, wonderful.
But this is great too.
This shot.
Like, yeah, yeah.
They're they're very calm this week.
They're not usually so calm about hitting into whacking great things.
Yeah, yeah, it's smashing into another giant planetary.
And I think that's the maturity of the script in that.
Three of them have gone down there and met the people and come back up and said to everyone else, we have to do this because it's the right thing to do.
And again, we don't get the big speech.
We just know that's happened because no one's objecting to this happened.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But also, they got a lot of their shaking acting out at the beginning.
We not doing that.
Yeah, we're just going to stand there.
The victors trippy kaleidoscope lighting effects again, the LSD soup.
Okay.
Yeah, beautiful.
Not too bad this week.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
We just rattled a bit, but we didn't, we only lost one desk lamp.
Which was a shame.
And one geason.
Oh, no, I thought you meant Regina was the desert.
I miss her.
Yeah, I always remember this one as her being very strong and through the whole episode, but you're right.
She's only in the 1st third.
I thought that was just her jawline.
Who's fallen off the, who's fallen off the smoking lounge this week?
The weird thing is people are in very different positions. than they were the 1st time.
Like Kano is up on the deck, on the on the upper deck as is cute bum guy.
Yeah, that is actually his...
Yeah, that is...
Yeah, nominative.
Now, the Star Trek episode I mentioned earlier ends with the crew very definitively saying, no, we've changed history and our descendants don't exist anymore.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Which I get that's the ending for Star Trek, because Star Trek has to go, it's science.
Whereas here, Helena still has the flowers.
So maybe they survived.
And I think the only thing wrong with this episode, aside from that weird reverse shot of Victor.
The only thing wrong with this episode is how plastic the flag is.
They're not real roses. as well as that clue.
Regina should have been there because she has to be expecting.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And we have that ending in Alpha Child and it's shit.
Why can't we have a good version?
But also, you know, Star Trek has to say, you know, descendants didn't exist because it's Star Trek and it needs to hit the reset button.
Yeah, no, exactly, exactly.
She was the only one allowed to be weird.
Only her.
Oh, but super orbital lobes, isn't they?
Well, no, because there was a Regina. there was a Regina on the on the planet who had died at the same time as she did.
So she does split, but she's aware of her.
No, I'm just thinking...
But that's what's so weird and fun and interesting about it is there aren't definitive answers to any of...
So after this one, Johnny Byrne was offered permanent positions.
Right.
Script as a script writer, not editor. was Chris Penfold, but he was the only one that was offered that.
Because, you know, just think, again, you've given us great linear plot that has a lot of things a director can do.
Yeah, yeah.
All for simplicity.
I think it's the Irishness in him.
Johnny Burney is extremely Irish.
And where I'm going with this is that simply there's, and I mean this in a really complimentary way, like Spoke Milligan, like Brendan Bean, like, you know, so many, like, just there's a list of, there's a, it's a real culture of word smithy.
Yeah, yeah.
And understanding the spiel and just the flow of ideas and the interconnectedness of things, but there's a languidness to it, but that is not dull.
I really enjoyed this one I did too.
I think it is.
I agree with you.
I think it is probably one of the best ones.
And it has that just the sort of weird bleakness and melancholy about the whole thing, which I think is great.
And it's such a strange thing to do, you know.
I, I, yeah, I was, I was gonna say, what's he also offered as much hash as he could smoke?
I think you can see it in the atmosphere of this plant.
Yes, that's how they got the yellow colour.
Johnny Byrne does also say that he was he was writing the script in the offices right next to the sets.
And so whenever he had a new idea, he'd be able to, he said, I'd be able to run and find Chris Penfold in a corridor on Moonbase Alfred and say, Chris, what about this weird idea?
Also, to your point, James, of what was he smoking?
He has been asked if he was on any substances and has said, I was not on anything more mind altering than the contents of the studio canteen.
Good poisoning there.
Mostly.
Or the hash brownies.
It was the same.
Well, what do you think?
Are we done?
I think we're done. that's the best episode so far.
Yeah, I think I would have to agree.
I'm glad I was on it.
Like, I mean, I've enjoyed it so far.
But this was just so, yeah, so interesting and so different.
Yeah.
And, you know, we have had episodes like Death's Other Dominion, Dragon's Domain, Voyagers Return, which are all earthbound, um, breakaway.
So, you know, I'm not saying it's the best of a bad bunch.
No, it's the best of a mostly very good box.
I agree.
It's not season two.
No, it's a full circle, which is absolute.
Yeah.
All right.
Well, in that case, Brendan, do you have anything that you want to plug?
No, but exciting things will be coming from the three-handed game soon as all 3 of us are on the same continent.
What?
Yes, and in the same state.
Hi Stephen.
That'd be awesome.
Looking forward to that.
I don't know which one we're doing.
Do you know which one's coming up?
So coming up will be the 2nd episode of The End of Empire, which will be Room Without a View, but that will be next month.
That's a good one, Diana Rigg, yeah.
All right.
So in that case, all that remains, is for me to say, until next time, remember that nothing good can come from all that time you spend staring at yourself in the mirror.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
She hit me with radiation, Detective.
Good night.
See you soon.
That really hurt.
Good night.